# luacluster object oriented

The most complex and comprehensive object-oriented functions in the lua language are implemented in luacluster. In order to avoid functional omissions, I also re-read "C++ Object-Oriented Programming".

In Chapter 16 of "[Programming in Lua](http://www.lua.org/pil/16.html)", a simple object-oriented function is implemented in lua language. Only real-to-single inheritance, no polymorphism, and the way of linked list inheritance makes the operation of objects very complicated. The biggest problem is that it occupies lua's meta table very aggressively. As a result, it is no longer possible to use the meta table for other functional extensions. Of course, "Programming in Lua" itself is a toy programming tutorial and can't criticize him too much.

## Objects, inheritance, multiple inheritance, polymorphism

### Overview Object Orientation

Object orientation itself is a love-hate thing. Especially the C++ object-oriented, complex! Very complicated! Because C++ object-oriented has a lot of things that should not be there at the language level. Object-oriented concepts are still very advanced. Divide the functionality of the software in terms of data and functions as a whole. The layering of software is realized by means of inheritance. In this way, in the process of developing software, it can be developed sequentially from the base class to the subclass. It can also be developed by multiple people. The software developed in this way corresponds to our application scenarios one-to-one. That is to say, the object-oriented development method can well match the complexity of various applications.

We can recall functional oriented programming that was popular in the 80s. When software development likes to put variables into variable libraries and libraries. The earliest linux system needs to put your software library and configuration files into the specified directory of the system respectively. From the application point of view, it is easy to understand that the application faces the system. But from the developer's point of view, it is very difficult. It is impossible for each developer to be familiar with all systems in medium and large software developed by multiple people. Therefore, the object-oriented development method was born. Each developer is only responsible for the part developed by himself. Reuse code as much as possible within the project. To reduce coupling errors between different modules.

So whether lua or C++, the object-oriented concept of code is used by developers or development teams. It is mainly used for the division of code functions in the development process. What inheritance, multiple inheritance and polymorphism are a way of code stitching. Components in unity are also a way of code stitching. Components are a method of weak stitching. Different components are relatively independent. Inheritance is a strong stitching method. Objects implemented through inheritance do not need to specify functionality when accessing methods. The way components can be dynamically hooked at software runtime. I don't think this is good and may extend the problem of compile time to runtime.

As explained in this subsection, don't confuse object-oriented myths. Object orientation in the development process is a way of organizing code. Object-oriented in runtime and object-oriented in development time are both called objects. But it's something completely different. Like the difference between design drawings and industrial finished products.

### Inheritance, Multiple Inheritance, Polymorphism

From the previous section we know that inheritance, multiple inheritance and polymorphism are a way of organizing code. Objects created by entities in luacluster have the functions of inheritance, multiple inheritance and polymorphism.

Take the client.lua object as an example entity.New() creates a new object. This object inherits the spaceplugin object through Inherit.

```lua
function accountFactory.New()
  local obj = entity.New()
  obj:Inherit("spaceplugin")
```

The Inherit function is defined in entity.lua, and I briefly explain the process by commenting.

```lua
    function rawobj:Inherit(parant) 
    	--1.Check the current inheritance list to see if it has already been inherited, duplicate inheritance is not allowed
        if self.__inherit[parant] ~= nil then
            error("Repeated inheritance ["..parant.."]")
            return
        end
		--2.调用new创建被继承的对象
        local parantFactory = require(parant)
        local parantObj = parantFactory.New()
        if parantObj == nil then
            error("Inherit error to New ["..parant.."]")
            return
        end
		--3.检查父类的继承列表是否有重复继承，没有就添加到当前的继承列表中
    	--__inherit是当前类继承的列表，__allparant是所有继承树的类列表
        for k, v in pairs(parantObj.__allparant) do
            if self.__allparant[k] ~= nil then
                error("Repeated inheritance ["..k.."]")
                return
            end
            self.__allparant[k] = v
        end 

        self.__inherit[parant] = parantObj

        if self.__allparant[parant] ~= nil then
            error("Repeated inheritance ["..parant.."]")
            return    
        end
        self.__allparant[parant] = parantObj
 
    	--4.将父类的__rawobj用户数据拷贝到当前类，注意是浅拷贝
        if parantObj.__rawobj ~= nil  then
            for k, v in pairs(parantObj.__rawobj) do self.__rawobj[k] = v end
        else
            for k, v in pairs(parantObj) do self.__rawobj[k] = v end
        end
    
    	--5.将标志过滤数据复制到当前类
        if parantObj.__FlagFilter ~= nil then
            for k, v in pairs(parantObj.__FlagFilter) do
                for key, fun in pairs(v) do
                    self:AddOneFlagFilter(k, fun)
                end
            end
        end
    
    	--5.将key的过滤数据复制到当前类
        if parantObj.__KeyFlags ~= nil then
            for k, v in pairs(parantObj.__KeyFlags) do self.__KeyFlags[k] = v end
        end
		
    	--6.将key的过滤函数复制到当前类
        if parantObj.__FlagFilterFun ~= nil then
            for k, v in pairs(parantObj.__FlagFilterFun) do self.__FlagFilterFun[k] = v end
        end
    
    	--7.将需要刷新到数据库的key复制到当前类
        if parantObj.__FreshKey ~= nil then
            for k, v in pairs(parantObj.__FreshKey) do self.__FreshKey[k] = v end
        end
    end
```

We can achieve multiple inheritance by calling Inherit multiple times in the New() function. Through the above code, you can see that all inherited classes are put into the __allparant variable.

This way we can easily use this variable to implement polymorphic calls to the entity object. That is, functions that have the same function name but are overridden during inheritance. For example, in the dbentity object, we implement the SaveBack function in both the dbplugin parent class and the dbentity subclass. In the dbentity subclass, the function of the dbplugin parent class needs to be called. It can be achieved through __allparant.

```lua
    function  obj:SaveBack(dbid)
        self.__allparant["dbplugin"].SaveBack(self,dbid)
        print("dbentity id",dbid)
        self.b = {a = 3, b = 4}
        self:SaveUpdate()
        self:Load(dbid)
    end
```

### entity meta table

We know that lua's metatable provides access filtering for keys. You can provide a callback function for filtering when the key is created, looped, and queried. The entity uses the original table to expand various functions.

```lua
    setmetatable(wrap,{
        __index = function (t,k)
            return t.__rawobj[k]
        end,
        __newindex = function (t,k,v)

            if t.__KeyFlags[k] ~= nil and t.__FlagFilter[t.__KeyFlags[k]] ~= nil then
                for key, fun in pairs(t.__FlagFilter[t.__KeyFlags[k]]) do
                    fun(t,k)
                end

                if type(v) == 'table' then
                    if getmetatable(v) == nil then
                        t.__rawobj[k] = entityFactory.CreateSub(v, t, k, t, k)
                        return
                    else
                        if v.__rawobj == nil or v.__entity == nil then
                            error("An attempt was made to assign an object that cannot be serialized "..k)
                        else
                            t.__rawobj[k] = v
                            return
                        end
                    end
                else
                    t.__rawobj[k] = v
                    return
                end
            end
            t.__rawobj[k] = v
        end,

        __ipairs = function(t)
            return ipairs(t.__rawobj)
          end,

        --__pairs会导致调试器的循环失效，显示错误的数据
        __pairs = function(t)
            return pairs(t.__rawobj)
          end,
    })
```

It is mainly divided into two types because user data is stored in rawobj, so index, newindex and ipairs are added, and pairs are used for reading and writing rawobj. The entityFactory.CreateSub function is additionally added to the newindex to add a meta table to the user-created table. Functions to store data or broadcast are triggered when these data are accessed and modified. Here we know that user data is stored in rawobj. entity provides a shell for object-oriented functionality.

Because lua language is essentially a C-like scripting language implemented on the basis of pseudo-assembly. Therefore, the object-oriented of lua is the object-oriented implementation based on the C-like script through the extension that comes with lua. It can't be script-oriented like java or c++. Make object-oriented functionality completely transparent. This part of the function in the process of using the threshold is still relatively high.

## Object creation, restrictions and security

### object creation

I separate object orientation, part inheritance and polymorphism. The other part is creating restrictions and security. The first of these two parts is for the development process. And this part is for the running process. Another element here is the communication of objects. Let's talk about it in the next section.

There are three methods of object creation. One is through the entitymng.EntityToCreate method through the script to achieve. EntityToCreate has two parameters, one is the location where the object is to be created.

```lua
sc.entity.DockerCurrent = 0 --当前ddocker
sc.entity.DockerRandom = 1 --当前节点的随机ddocker
sc.entity.NodeInside = 2 --任意内部节点
sc.entity.NodeOutside = 3 --任意有对外部通信节点
sc.entity.NodeRandom = 4--任意随机的节点
sc.entity.DockerGlobe = 5 --放入全局节点
```

一个是对象创建成功后默认数值。例如空间对象的创建如下

```lua
        --创建基本的space
        entitymng.EntityToCreate(sc.entity.DockerGlobe , "sudokuex", {bigworld=self.id,
                              beginx = sc.bigworld.beginx - sc.sudoku.girdx,
  	                          beginz = sc.bigworld.beginz - sc.sudoku.girdz,
                              endx = sc.bigworld.endx + sc.sudoku.girdx,
                              endz = sc.bigworld.endz + sc.sudoku.girdz,
                                                                    oid = 0 })
```

The second method is to create a bound script object when a new tcp link is made. Method calls sent over the TCP protocol are sent to this object.

The third method is the global object created by sc.lua. This global object is unique within the cluster. For example spatial objects and storage objects. The created object will be created by entityMng.NewEntity.

### Object Restrictions and Security

In traditional object-oriented languages there are restrictions on access to properties like. There are public, private, protect and so on. I am actually very confused. Because at the development level this restriction doesn't make any sense. It's like your left hand restricting your right hand. It does nothing and increases the complexity of development in vain. But in luacluster this limitation is a real problem. Because it is necessary to limit the call requests sent by the client. Otherwise, serious safety accidents may result.

The sc.keyflags.exposed flag can be added to the entity to explicitly indicate which functions the user can call.

```lua
function accountFactory.New()
    local obj = entity.New()
    obj:Inherit("spaceplugin")
    obj:AddKeyFlags("Ping", sc.keyflags.exposed)
    obj:AddKeyFlags("Move", sc.keyflags.exposed)
    obj.client = tcpproxy.New(obj.id)
```

例如在client中的Ping和Move函数就是客户端可以调用的。

## 对象KEY的过滤

除了上一个小节中提到的sc.keyflags.exposed标志外。我们还有其他key的标记

```lua
sc.keyflags.exposed = 1--客户端可调用
sc.keyflags.persistent = 2--保存到数据库
sc.keyflags.broadcast = 4--广播给所有可见对象
sc.keyflags.private = 8--同步到客户端
```

注意这些标记都是针对对象的第一层key。对于key下面的子key是无效的。虽然我在子表内添加了元表进行过滤。但对于子表的过滤开销还是太大了。所以当key被触发后保存，广播和同步的操作都也是针对对象的第一层key的。例如dbentity的保存操作。

```lua
    function  obj:SaveBack(dbid)
        self.__allparant["dbplugin"].SaveBack(self,dbid)
        print("dbentity id",dbid)
        self.b = {a = 3, b = 4}
        self:SaveUpdate()
        self:Load(dbid)
    end
```

self:SaveUpdate()的操作是针对"b"的。所有"b"下面的数据都会被保存到数据库。同理broadcast和private也是一样的。

## Communication between objects

Calls between luacluster objects are implemented through asynchronous communication. Must use multithreaded queue or udp communication. Although this will lose some performance. Because calls between objects of the same thread must also pass through the multi-threaded queue. The performance penalty is that the communication between objects must be asynchronous and queued in order. Use udpProxy or udpProxyList in scripts to create object proxies. Send asynchronous calls via docker.Send.

There is no asynchronous communication between objects in C++. However, a large number of communication restrictions have been added. Doing inappropriate things in inappropriate places. This leads to grammatically awkward behavior.

An object within the computer would represent an object in the virtual world. This object has the same properties as objects in our real world. This property leads to the behavior of building walls and digging holes in syntaxes like C++ friends. The so-called consciousness of building walls and digging holes is. You draw a boundary. Then normal communication is not used on the boundary. And this behavior is digging another hole. It is very likely that another wall will be built for this hole. It will fall into an infinite loop of synchronous and asynchronous. There is no such problem in luacluster. Because luacluster stipulates that the outside of the object is asynchronous, and the inside of the object is synchronous. Inheritance and reuse of code can only be considered within the object. If we put the inheritance code reuse into the runtime, it is easy to fall into this recursion trap.

Well, that's all for today, and I wish you all a happy holiday.
